In this video we'll cover modules.
So in terms of code organization,
currently all of our code is in a single file.
And for real-time projects, we'd like to place
our code into separate files.
So as one example here, I could have this driver
and would like to make use of files
for customer, product, and account.
And we need some way to kind of include or import
those files into our application.
And so TypeScript supports the concept of modules.
So a module can export classes, functions, and variables.
And another file can import these classes,
functions, and variables from a given module.
All right, so let's work through this with an example.
So we'll have this driver file,
and we want to make use of this customer file.
So this Customer.ts is going to export the customer class,
and then the driver is going to import
the customer class from that file.
All right, so let's kind of look at a code example here.
So here is our file, Customer.ts,
so this defines our class customer
and then note here, we're going to export this class.
So when you export a given class or entity,
then that makes it available
for someone else to possibly import.
All right, so I'll just kind of swing this over
to the right-hand side.
So here's our driver file, kind of like our main file.
So notice here on the first line,
we're going to do an import, so I'm going to import customer,
so we're importing the customer class,
and where are we importing it from?
Well, we're going to import it from ./customer.
So here it's based on the file name
of where that class is defined,
but you don't give the .ts,
you simply give the actual name
of the file itself without the extension.
And in this example, we're assuming that this Driver.ts
and Customer.ts are in the same directory.
So that's why I make use of the ./customer,
meaning in the same directory.
However, if they're in different directories,
then you can simply give a relative directory path.
So you could, you know, if it's in a subdirectory,
sub one, sub two, sub three, you simply
access those different sub directories.
You can also use a dot dot slash
if you need to kind of move up one or two directories
and then go to the actual file.
But in this example here,
Driver.ts and Customer.ts are in the same directory.
And that's basically it.
So on the right-hand side, we export the class,
and then on the left-hand side,
we import the class from a given file.
All right, so on the next section here,
we'll jump into our IDE,
and I will write this code, and we'll test it out.
Okay, so let's go ahead and move in here.
Let me zoom in for a second
and we'll do the normal copy/paste on the project.
And I'll just renamed as 05-modules.
And then let's go ahead and open up that Customer.ts file.
Let me zoom out a bit.
And what I'd like to do on this file is at the bottom,
I want to remove some extra code.
So this is the code at the bottom
where we would create the instance
and do all the logging stuff.
We're going to move this to a separate file.
So let's go ahead and cut this code.
And then on my 05-module's directory,
I want to create a new file.
And I'll call it driver.ts,
kind of like our main application.
And we could give any name that we want it to here,
but I'll just call it driver.
And then on this driver file,
I'll go ahead and paste in that code
that I copied from the previous file.
Okay, good, that looks great.
But you'll notice that there's one compilation error here,
if you kind of hover over customer,
it says "cannot find customer".
So its like well who is this customer guy?
They're tryin' to guess but their guess is incorrect.
We somehow need to import that given customer.
But we actually need to go to customer.ts
because the first thing we have to do is
export the customer.
So you see export keyword.
All right so now this customer class
is been exported and now it's available
for someone else to import.
So now in my driver, I can go ahead
and add a new line here
to actually import the class.
So I do an import, the actual class,
then I tell it where I want it import it from
and I do the ./customer
and remember we give the name of the file
without the extension
and then here they're both in the same directory
so I simply make use of ./customer.
And then notice here, our compilation error
goes away, so this looks pretty good.
All right, so let's go ahead
and open up a new terminal window
and test this out.
So I'm moving to the appropriate directory here
04-classes/05-modules and then do a compile.
That's good.
And now do a run.
And I get the desired output.
So now this works out fine.
So notice here, I'm running the driver program.
So it's a separate file from customer
but we're able to import that customer,
create an instance of it,
and then access the date accordingly.
So this is great,
so we're able to make use of modules here
and separate our code into separate files.
Good job!